Welcome back.
Up until this point we talked about singly linked list and we should have a good idea of how they work.
But what is a doubly linked list.
Doubly linked list is similar except that it links to the node before it.
Let's have a look at a little animation here.
We have a head node.
Let's say we just have one node.
You see that we have an extra block here.
We're not really sure what this does yet.
Now if we wanted to add a new block to this list a doubly linked list.
And we wanted to add a node that contains the value 10.
Well we would now have a pointer to the next node.
We'd also have a pointer.
This is the new part to the previous node and the new node is going to point to no.
And this now becomes the tail if we added a nother node.
Well we'd have the 10 node point to the new node we'd also have the new node point to the previous node
and then finally that becomes a tail which means it points to no.
And that's what a doubly linked list does.
It has an extra little block here an extra piece of data that also links to the previous node.
Now why do you think that's important.
Doubly linked lists allow us to traverse our list backwards.
So up until now we were only able to go from the beginning all the way to the end with a doubly linked
list.
I can start from the end and go backwards.
In a singly linked list there is no way for me to know what comes before 10 what comes before this note.
In a doubly linked list that is no problem.
It's exactly the same as the singly linked list but contains this additional pointer to the previous
node and searching through a doubly linked list can actually be a little bit more efficient.
And look up can technically be all of and divide by two because we can start at both ends and if we
know in which half of the list what we're looking for is we can pick the optimum place to start.
Now look up here is still all of.
And because if you remember with our rule book with 0 0 0 12 and divided by 2 is still all then but
it's still technically a little bit faster.
Now the downside to a doubly linked list as you can see is that we might have to hold a little bit more
memory and additional block of memory and we have a video talking about when to use doubling list and
a singly linked list.
Later on but to understand this properly I think we should convert our singly linked lists that we created
in the previous videos to a doubly linked list.
So let's go have a look at how to do that.
I'll see in the next one.
Babai.